ladies and gentlemen our plane is
approaching jfk airport
if you wish to get out please prepare
yourself fasten your seat belts
and press the button on my command the
ejection system will activate
and your seat will take you to baggage
claim and terminal one
in just two minutes wow sign me up
traveling would become much easier do
you spend hours surfing ticket websites
looking for the fastest connections well
now every plane is just like a bus
it flies over a city and you just get
off at the right stop
do you normally spend half your life at
the gate waiting for your connecting
flight
now you just push a button the pilot and
co-pilot make sure it's safe
then they release your seat and you make
it to thanksgiving dinner on time for
once
does it make you a little nervous every
time a plane approaches a runway
and lowers its landing gear well that
problem's long gone
well sort of you're still racing towards
the ground pretty fast
but now you're all alone in your very
own special parachute chair
we'll definitely see many unusual things
in the future
robots at every checkout counter flying
cars and ejection seats in passenger
planes
but not yet currently it's impossible to
parachute out of the red eye from
chicago to la
or any flight here's why there are
various ejection systems
one is the ejection seat the first
prototype of its kind
came out in 1928 the system would sense
danger
and a seat with a built-in parachute
would be thrown out of the plane
it wasn't for passenger planes only for
the pilot
before that pilots had a pretty rough
time parachuting out of a malfunctioning
plane
in case of emergency the pilot had to
climb out of the cockpit
shimmy onto the wing and jump perfectly
into the space between the wing and the
tail
obviously that was pretty traumatic and
it was only possible at low altitude
and only if the plane was going slow
enough
that's why designers began to develop a
special system for
automatically ejecting pilots from their
aircraft in case of some sort of
emergency
over time the system got better and
better
when a pilot ejected out of a plane they
used to have to recline their seat and
release the parachute on their own
now all that happens automatically but
for the average
unprepared person the whole thing can be
scary difficult
and kind of dangerous you think
the ejection seat pilots use now is
pretty complex
if you add in all the gear and the
actual parachute
it weighs more than a thousand pounds
let's imagine a regular plane
with 200 passengers crew and luggage
if ejection seats were installed on that
kind of plane
there'd be way less room and way less
seats
like 10 times less so you might be
paying 10 times more for a flight
if you're flying let's say from new york
to paris that's about an eight hour
flight
you'll probably show up wearing
sportswear and your most comfortable
shoes
everyone knows that feet and legs swell
during flight
so you gotta stay comfortable if you're
a passenger in an ejection seat
you're gonna have to rethink your outfit
everyone would be wearing special suits
oxygen masks and helmets so
what happens if you're thrown out into
the atmosphere
firstly your body would be in shock
getting
catapulted out of a plane isn't exactly
an enjoyable experience
and that chair you're sitting in not a
normal airplane chair
you can say goodbye to reclining back in
your seat
or having movable arm rests the new
seats would be built to be tough
no unnecessary moving parts next problem
temperature even at low altitudes the
temperature is much lower than on the
ground
planes typically fly at around thirty
three thousand feet
the temperature outside the plane way up
there is about
minus sixty that's why you're wearing
that special suit
to stop you from freezing when you eject
out
pressure is also an issue it's low
pressure up there
less than thirty percent of normal sea
level pressure
that means less oxygen that's why
climbers take oxygen cylinders with them
it's almost impossible to breathe on
your own without an oxygen mask
it would be hard for you to stay
conscious your new and improved
parachute seat needs space around it to
safely eject from the airplane
without harming you or other passengers
and it needs a pretty big push
to launch itself clear of the powerful
jets
in specialized aircraft when the pilot
triggers the ejection seat
the glass shield over the top of the
cockpit flies off
to give the seat a straight shot out of
harm's way but
how would that work on a passenger plane
well
the plane would have to be redesigned
from scratch
it sounds like a tall order to build a
huge sturdy safe plane
that also has the world's biggest
sunroof so
ejecting out when the plane's flying
over your house is pretty much a no-go
what about using ejection seats just for
emergencies have you ever jumped out of
a perfectly good plane with a parachute
yeah i have then you probably remember
you had to sit through a bunch of
training
and even with that you did your first
jump strapped to an experienced and
licensed instructor
a random passenger without any special
training can easily get confused and
make a mistake
a bad landing could end up being pretty
serious
especially if you add in other factors
like mountains or woods
or water or sharks need i go on
if dozens of ejection seats were to fly
out of a plane at the same time
well they might collide with each other
and anyway nearly all emergency
situations occurred during takeoff and
landing
parachutes would be useless then anyway
even just putting on a parachute is
complicated that already add about an
hour to the safety presentation
and you need different sizes for each
passenger also
parachutes are usually checked before
they get used
add that all up and you're talking about
a massive hours long safety check
before every single flight what about
once you're up at cruising altitude
would you wear your parachute the whole
time
well that would cause a whole lot of
problems not to mention
using the restroom would be so
uncomfortable
oops i mentioned it when it's time to
jump even trained skydivers sometimes
panic a little hey how would you feel if
you were on your way to a relaxing beach
getaway
and then you suddenly had to jump out of
a plane with 10 seconds to get ready
during flight it's almost impossible to
open those emergency plane doors
something about the difference in air
pressure inside the plane and out
they'd have to design a whole new door
system
and what about a parachute for the whole
plane 40 years ago a company developed a
parachute for a small aircraft
the thinking went something like this if
the aircraft malfunctions
the system automatically drops a
parachute the plane
continues to descend but at a slower
speed
these parachutes could probably only
support lightweight planes
it's all about the fabric to sustain an
ordinary bowing jet
you need several massive canopies that
would cover a whole city block
and it would weigh a lot probably too
much to even take off
we'd need a new fabric lightweight but
durable so far
no luck there were other ingenious
inventions designed to save passengers
in case of danger
one inventor developed a special
substance it's a bit complicated but
basically in case of danger it turns any
flammable material into sand
the formula for this magical substance
is of course
a secret it's not the only special
substance out there
apparently there's one that's kept
inside the aircraft in special capsules
in case of emergency before hitting the
ground the capsules are released
the substance reacts with oxygen and
forms a kind of
foam it envelops the passengers and
holds them in place
protecting them from impact don't worry
if that sounds crazy to you
it's going to be a while before
something like that ever gets approved
for public use
a lot of people are afraid of flying
it's understandable
you're so far off the ground and have
absolutely no control over anything
believe it or not planes are actually
the safest mode of mass transportation
in the world
so relax take your seat and enjoy the
flyer
but first would you mind stepping
outside